{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1036\deflangfe1036{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f60\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f61\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f63\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f64\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f65\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f66\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f67\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f68\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f69\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f71\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f72\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f73\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f74\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f75\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f76\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f77\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f79\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f80\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f81\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f82\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f83\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1036\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1036\langfe1036\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri-141\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin-141\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1036\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\ul\lang1036\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{
\s4\qc \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs20\lang1036\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{
\s5\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs36\cf1\lang1033\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1036 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 5;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx0\tx959\tx1918\tx2877\tx3836\tx4795\tx5754\tx6713\tx7672\tx8631\tx9590\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1036 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Preformatted;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Document de R\'e9f\'e9rence du Syst\'e8me}
{\subject Les bases}{\author Spellbooks}{\operator Olivier Fanton}{\creatim\yr2003\mo12\dy11\hr13\min1}{\revtim\yr2003\mo12\dy11\hr13\min1}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords1256}{\nofchars7162}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws8795}{\vern8269}}
\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1417 \deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow0
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale120\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f1\fs28\lang1036\langfe1036\kerning28\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 {Conditions l\'e9gales d\rquote utilisation
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1036\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 {\lang1033\langfe1036\langnp1033 
\par }{La permission de copier, modifier et distribuer les fichiers d\'e9sign\'e9s collectivement sous le nom de Document de R\'e9f\'e9rence du Syst\'e8me (\'ab\~DRS\~\'bb) [}{\i System Reference Document (\'ab\~SRD\~\'bb)}{] n\rquote est accord\'e9e qu
\rquote \'e0 travers l\rquote utilisation de la licence ludique libre [}{\i Open Game License}{] v1.0a.
\par 
\par Ces documents sont publi\'e9s selon la licence ludique libre v1.0a et vous devez lire et comprendre les termes de cette licence avant d\rquote utiliser ces documents.
\par 
\par Le texte de la licence en elle-m\'eame n\rquote est pas du contenu ludique libre. Les instructions sur l\rquote usage de la licence sont int\'e9gr\'e9s \'e0 la licence.
\par }{\lang1033\langfe1036\langnp1033 
\par }\pard\plain \s17\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Les termes suivants (et leurs traductions) sont d\'e9sign\'e9s comme identit\'e9 du produit [}{\i 
Product Identity}{], comme d\'e9fini dans la Section 1(e) de la licence ludique libre v1.0a, sont sujets aux conditions \'e9tablies dans la Section\~7 de l\rquote OGL, et ne sont pas du contenu ludique libre\~
: Dungeons & Dragons, D&D, Dungeon Master, Monster Manual, d20 System, Wizards of the Coast, d20 (when used as a trademark), Forgotten Realms, Faer\'fb
n, character names (including those used in the names of spells or items), places, Red Wizard of Thay, Heroic Domains of Ysgard, Ever-Changing Chaos of Limbo, Windswept Depths of Pandemonium, Infinite Layers of the Abyss, Tarterian Depths of
 Carceri, Gray Waste of Hades, Bleak Eternity of Gehenna, Nine Hells of Baator, Infernal Battlefield of Acheron, Clockwork Nirvana of Mechanus, Peaceable Kingdoms of Arcadia, Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia, Twin Paradises of Bytopia, Blessed Fields of
 Elysium, Wilderness of the Beastlands, Olympian Glades of Arborea, Concordant Domain of the Outlands, Sigil, Lady of Pain, Book of Exalted Deeds, Book of Vile Darkness, beholder, gauth, carrion crawler, tanar\rquote 
ri, baatezu, displacer beast, githyanki, githzerai, mind flayer, illithid, umber hulk, yuan-ti.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1036\langfe1036\cgrid\langnp1036\langfenp1036 {Tout le reste du DRS est du contenu ludique libre selon la description de la Section 1(d) de la licence.
\par 
\par Pour plus d\rquote information sur la licence ludique libre, consultez le site }{\field{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK "http://www.opengamingfoundation.org" }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b02000000170000001d0000007700770077002e006f00700065006e00670061006d0069006e00670066006f0075006e0064006100740069006f006e002e006f00720067000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b4a00000068007400740070003a002f002f00770077007700
2e006f00700065006e00670061006d0069006e00670066006f0075006e0064006100740069006f006e002e006f00720067002f000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs16\ul\cf2 www.opengamingfoundation.org}}}{ ou }{\field{\*\fldinst { HYPERLINK "http://www.wizards.com/d20" }{{\*\datafield 
00d0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b0200000017000000140000007700770077002e00770069007a0061007200640073002e0063006f006d002f006400320030000000e0c9ea79f9bace118c8200aa004ba90b3600000068007400740070003a002f002f007700770077002e00770069007a0061007200640073002e00
63006f006d002f0064003200300000000000}}}{\fldrslt {\cs16\ul\cf2 www.wizards.com/d20}}}{.
\par 
\par Voici les termes de la licence ludique libre v1.0a.
\par 
\par }{\lang1033\langfe1036\langnp1033 OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a 
\par 
\par The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc ("Wizards"). All Rights Reserved. 
\par 
\par 1. Definitions: (a)"Contributors" means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)"Derivative Material" means copyr
ighted material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be re
c
ast, transformed or adapted; (c) "Distribute" means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)"Open Game Content" means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and
 
routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including 
t
ranslations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) "Product Identity" means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, sto
r
ylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters,
 
spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or reg
i
stered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) "Trademark" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to ident
i
fy itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) "Use", "Used" or "Using" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game
 Content. (h) "You" or "Your" means the licensee in terms of this agreement. 
\par 
\par 2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. Yo
u must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using th
is License. 
\par 
\par 3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License. 
\par 
\par 4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content. 
\par 
\par 5.Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License. 

\par 
\par 6.Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of an
y Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder's name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute. 
\par 
\par 7. Use of Product Identity: You agre
e not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adapta
b
ility with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identi
ty in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity. 
\par 
\par 8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content. 
\par 
\par 9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use 
any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License. 
\par 
\par 10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute. 
\par 
\par 11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so. 
\par 
\par 12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible fo
r You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected. 
\par 
\par 13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License. 
\par 
\par 14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. 
\par 
\par 15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE 
\par Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc. 
\par 
\par System Reference Document Copyright 200
0-2003, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Rich baker, Andy Collins, David noonan, Rich Redman, Bruce R. Cordell, based on original material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson. 
\par 
\par }{END OF LICENSE
\par 
\par }}